# Excerpts: pillars

Query: `pillars` | min_views=20000 | canonical_only=False

**The Ultimate Day Trading Guide (Full Training Chapters 1 - 10)** (1,041,361 views)
https://youtube.com/watch?v=oxob0x0Xz7s
`transcript_oxob0x0Xz7s_The_Ultimate_Day_Trading_Guide__Full_Training_Chapters_1_-_1.txt`

to tell you right now there's no such thing as a strategy that works 100% of the time but if you have a strategy that over the course of 100 trades is giving you profit 60% of the time 70% of the time that can be enough to be a very profitable Trader as long as you learn to cut your losses quickly I'll teach you how to do that today all right so now you've looked at a couple examples of a few different chart patterns this is also going to be a yes we've got a nice volume profile macd is open so everything about this looks good all right so what are the topics that we're going to cover today we've got 10 big topics we're going to cover and this I sort of picture this as helping lay the foundation so because I want to keep this class concise and make sure I give you as much value as I can for your time I'm not going to go into a huge amount of depth on each one of these topics but they're pillars of the foundation this is your starting point and as you learn all of these Concepts what we can do in additional classes that you can watch here on YouTube and or you could uh watch it where you're trading is we will fill in more depth around these so you're going to learn that this each one of these topics can be expanded upon with a lot more depth but of course rather than starting with a tremendous amount of depth and overwhelming you I want to start with laying a solid foundation of making sure you understand the basic concepts necessary to be a Trader okay so let's go ahead and you know what I I want want to start by just saying one thing there's a lot of people out there on YouTube and on social media who talk a big game and I want to thank you for tuning in to this episode right here but you may be wondering what does this guy know about trading in a small account what do

---

**27 Years of Trading Knowledge in 3hrs and 5mins** (560,028 views)
https://youtube.com/watch?v=B81TMhUpz50
`transcript_B81TMhUpz50_27_Years_of_Trading_Knowledge_in_3hrs_and_5mins.txt`

it's a free bundle of downloads they're PDFs you can download them you can print them out and what I want you to do is I want you to put them around your desk so some of these are going to have uh charts that you can pin up to your monitors or right next to your monitors others are stepbystep guides of this is the process of stock selection where I get in where I get out everything else so the more that you can Embrace fully immersing yourself in the strategy that other people are trading right now I think the better off you'll be that's my belief so if that strategy is mine then I want to encourage you to just get fully immersed and learn as much as you can about the way that I trade so now that you've um now that you understand finding a mentor is very important we're going to talk about stock selection so when we talk about stock selection um I'm going to break down for you the five pillars of stock selection so this is going to be five pillars right here and this is in the PDF that you guys can download so when you download it it could be a supplement to what I'm going to share with you right now now when we're talking about stock selection one of the things that um we're going to talk about is price percentage change today relative volume RV which I'll explain in a second news and Float these are the most number these are the five most important criteria that if a stock doesn't meet the criteria for each of these I'm about to share with you I will not trade it now there are some additional criteria that we'll talk about um over on this side which are I would say bonus uh criteria but if a stock doesn't meet it but it does meet these five I'll still probably trade it the bonus criteria just make that setup that that stock that much better now one of the things that

---

**I Reset My Account to $2,000 (AGAIN) Robinhood Challenge Ep 1** (401,875 views)
https://youtube.com/watch?v=oaHTe5lotSQ
`transcript_oaHTe5lotSQ_I_Reset_My_Account_to__2_000__AGAIN__Robinhood_Challenge_Ep_.txt`

t'll be deposited in about 5 to seven days. So that for most traders is going to be fairly straightforward. You could do a wire, which would be same day, but then you've got to pay a wiring fee. So, most people probably do an a from their bank account or from another brokerage account, which is fine. Okay. So, now we've made the decision, at least for me, I've made the decision that I'm going to focus on trading the US equities market, US stock market between 7 a.m. and 10:00 a.m. And I'm going to use Robin Hood as my broker. So, now we've got to set up our scanners. My scanners search for stocks that I've historically made the most money on. not the specific stocks, but the type of stocks. So, what I've been able to do in all my years of trading is analyze my data and draw some pretty uh firm conclusions about the type of stocks I make the most money on. And I've actually laid out five pillars of stock selection. So, the stocks I make the most money on share these common denominators. The first is price. I tend to make the most money on stocks between two and 20. Now, during a small account challenge, realistically, even a $20 stock is going to be too expensive. So, for the small account challenge, I'm going to be focused a little bit more between around a $1.50 and usually about5 or $6 at the high. I just can't afford the more expensive stocks. So, I'm going to be focusing a little bit on the cheaper range. Number two, I do the best when stocks are up at least 25%. So, we want to see a big percentage gain. Now, a stock being up 25% is obviously significant. Most stocks in the market don't go up or down 25% in a single day. Number three, I do the best when the relative volume relative volume is at least five times above average. Relative volume is a measure of today's

---

**How To Start Day Trading in 2026 (full training)** (341,248 views)
https://youtube.com/watch?v=oKlhUSSHe2Q
`transcript_oKlhUSSHe2Q_How_To_Start_Day_Trading_in_2026__full_training_.txt`

is sort of cyclical. They can change from time to time, but crypto, biotech, AI, if the if the time is between 7 a.m. and 10:00 a.m. and then you get that high relative volumeing because so many traders are excited to participate in trading this stock where they see that it's got news. It's moving higher and it's giving familiar chart patterns that help us understand risk and reward. And so if I jump onto a chart here, this is the example of MLGO where even early in the morning here when it was up, you know, 75 100% I knew it had the potential and this thing just kept cranking higher all day long. It ended up going up 432% on over 300 million shares of volume. This was very liquid. There was a lot of opportunity to trade this. It was a lowflat stock with very high demand and that's what resulted in this big rate of change. So if we're going to look at at it on a list, these are my five pillars of stock selection. The stock has to be already up at least 10% on the day. It needs five times relative volume. It needs to it needs to have news to be an aquality setup. There are exceptions to this where we'll have um sectorwide catalyst that I will trade, but those are always going to be a little riskier. So in terms of a quality, we need to have news. Number four, the stock should be between 2 and 20, but between 5 and 10 is even better. And the float should be less than 10 million shares, but lower is also better. These five pillars are what I look for every single day when I'm trading. And so I actually have a scanner and I'm using that scan every single day to show me the stocks that are worth considering. And so this is the software that I'm using. And this right here is my five pillars alert scanner. And this is showing stocks that currently meet all five pillars of sto

---

**I Reset My Account to $2,000 (AGAIN) Webull Challenge Ep 1** (316,882 views)
https://youtube.com/watch?v=-6gIqlVhxeI
`transcript_-6gIqlVhxeI_I_Reset_My_Account_to__2_000__AGAIN__Webull_Challenge_Ep_1.txt`

I've got to wait for that trade to settle overnight. Now, that's a real pain if you're trying to day trade. The good news is that FINRA, the regulator of the US markets, just this past month has approved a change to the pattern day trader rule, an amendment, for the first time since it was first put into place in 2001. And the rule change states that the new pattern day trader minimum will be not $25,000, but just $2,000. So, whatever I do during this small account challenge with $2,000 in a cash account, I would be able to do at a much faster rate when this rule change goes into effect. So, that's [snorts] something to get excited about. Okay. So, the goal for me each day is to find just one really good quality setup, and that means I'm going to be focusing on finding stocks that meet all five pillars of stock selection. I'm going to walk you through what each of those pillars are as we get into today's episode. Now, for those of you guys who have been tuning in to this whole series of small account challenges, this is my third one this year, and all of the profit that I make during this small account challenge will get donated to charity. So, this year so far, we have already donated over $133,000. I wrote a check for $60,000 to the Boston Children's Hospital, St. Jude's Children's Hospital, and I did a donation to the Aspen House in Colorado, which is a home for adults with disabilities. So, we're trying to pay it forward, and you guys can help me double the donation because for everyone that hits the thumbs up on this episode right here or subscribes to the channel from this episode, I'm going to add an extra dollar to the donation. We're going to do a dollar-for-dollar mat

---

